# Purpose and Findings for COVID Infection/Mortality Rate Project:
I began this project with the COVID dataset from [Our Word in Data](https://ourworldindata.org/covid-deaths) in an effort to explore the infection and mortality rate COVID had on the population by continent, country and on a global scale. I represented my findings in two dashboards.

The 1st dashboard, ranging from 2020 to early 2021, consists of 4 sets of visual representations of my findings on the impact COVID had within its first year. The second dashboard, 2020 – March of 2023, expands on the same visual graphs to include a more robust dataset, compared to the first dashboard, with 32 more locations and a near 30% increase in overall data.

The line graph labeled “Avg. Percent Population Infected” consists of 6 countries that were chosen with the intention of collecting information from highly populated areas in different sectors of the globe. United States received the highest percentage of nearly 9%, followed by United Kingdom (6.3%), Brazil (5.4%), South Africa (2.5%), Mexico (1.6%) and China (0.01%). I expanded on this graph to include a year long estimate of the potential rise and fall of cases of infection, which I then compared to the second dashboard. The estimation was, in some cases off by 1 to 2 percent. But what was most interesting was the shifting rate in infections: United Kingdom surpassed the United States by 6%, Brazil had a 2% decrease from February 2023 to March 2023, and China, after nearly three years under 1% rose to almost 7% by March 2023. One can speculate why these shifts occurred, which I hope to expand upon in a future project.

  I then looked into the death count according to continent, represented in a bar graph labeled “Mortality Count By Continent”. Europe being the highest, had over 1 million deaths, and the lowest being Oceania with a little over a thousand deaths. In the second dashboard, although Europe and Oceania maintained their positions with the increase of cases, Asia’s numbers rose their rank from 4th to 2nd highest death count.

  In order to see COVIDs impact globally, I summed the total cases and total deaths around the world in “Global Case Mortality Rate”. This table shows the total confirmed cases hit a peak of 150.5 million with a total death toll of 3.1 million, giving us a death percentage of about 2.11%. Comparing to the second dashboard, the total cases and total deaths nearly doubled in both categories but interestingly enough, the death percentage lowered to a 0.9%.

  Lastly, I used an interactive map, “Percentage of Population Infected by Country” in both dashboards, for those who want to explore by country the percentage of infection compared to their population.
